chore: adding uds core prerequisites documentation (#636)
defenseunicorns/uds-core: docs/deployment/prerequisites.md

---
title: UDS Prerequisites
type: docs
weight: 4
---

## UDS installation prerequisites

> `UDS Core` could run in any [Kuberentes](https://kubernetes.io/) setup, but sometimes customizations are needed based on environemnts. This is an attempt to document and link to relevant information to aid in setting up your [Kuberentes](https://kubernetes.io/) environment to ensure a successful `UDS Core` installation.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`UDS Core` can run in any CNCF conformant [Kubernetes](https://www.cncf.io/training/certification/software-conformance/) setup, but sometimes customizations are needed based on environments. This is an attempt to document and link to relevant information to aid in setting up your Kubernetes environment and hosts to ensure a successful `UDS Core` installation.  
```

Unsure how to fit in but we may also want to link our [distribution support](https://uds.defenseunicorns.com/core/deployment/distribution-support/) up front as well.

### RHEL
---
#### *ISTIO related changes*
Solution is to create file `/etc/modules-load.d/istio-iptables.conf` with this content:

```bash
# These modules need to be loaded on boot so that Istio (as required by
# UDS Core) runs properly.
#
# See also: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23009

br_netfilter
nf_nat
xt_REDIRECT
xt_owner
iptable_nat
iptable_mangle
iptable_filter
```

```bash
sudo systemctl stop firewalld
sudo systemctl disable firewalld

> ```

Reviewer: I think for these Istio pieces as well, they are more broadly applicable than just RHEL. I think the doc you linked in the Istio section below is good, maybe we could also add [this code snippet](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-rke2-image-builder/blob/main/packer/scripts/os-prep.sh#L28-L33) in that section and delete this RHEL specific section.

(also noting that the firewalld issue is captured under the RKE2 bullets)

### RKE2
--- 
* [Installation requirements](https://docs.rke2.io/install/requirements)
* [Firewalld network conflicts](https://docs.rke2.io/known_issues#firewalld-conflicts-with-default-networking)
* [Disabling components, such as Ingress which clashes with istio](https://docs.rke2.io/advanced#disabling-server-charts)

> * [Defense Unicorns os prep script for rke2](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-rke2-image-builder/blob/main/packer/scripts/os-prep.sh)

Reviewer: I think I would suggest teasing apart the specific pieces here per-package rather than linking this script directly, added a few specific comments for promtail and neuvector below which are the key ones. It's also more broadly applicable than just RKE2, so I'd lean towards shifting down to that core section.

### K3S
---
* [OS requirements](https://docs.k3s.io/installation/requirements#operating-systems)

### UDS Core components
---
#### UDS Operator
#### Istio 
* [Platform requirements](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/platform-requirements/)
#### Keycloak
* [Configuration guide](https://www.keycloak.org/keycloak-benchmark/kubernetes-guide/latest/)

> #### Neuvector

Reviewer: We may want to reference enabling cgroups v2 here - NeuVector should work without it, but that has not been my experience in the past. Could link [this doc](https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/cgroup2/) or another one.

#### Loki
#### Prometheus

> #### Promtail

Reviewer: I would suggest pulling out the specific pieces for promtail from [this script](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/uds-rke2-image-builder/blob/main/packer/scripts/os-prep.sh#L9-L11). It should be these 3 `fs` sysctl commands.

#### Grafana
#### Authservice

> #### Velero

Reviewer: Might suggest we leave off the empty sections if they don't have any current known prerequisites (including Keycloak since that is just a config guide link).

#### Metrics Server

> * Optional component and can be added if needed. Most of the provided managed clsuters will provide you a metric server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Optional component and can be added if needed. Most of the provided managed clusters will provide you a metric server.
```
